
Date : 25th May 2021 [
]
1.  	Brief about your professional journey
2.  	Tell me about your journey with AWS Services. What are the services you’re familiar with?
3.  	What are the use cases or scenarios you’ve been gone through?
4.  	On a daily basis how much exposure do you have and with which services?
5.  	Tell me the architecture in which you set up and managed to host the website and maintained the availability of your client?
6.  	If one of the nodes is unhealthy then tell me how it’ll be decommissioned and get a new server to replace it?
7.  	If a new server is created then what kind of configuration or settings you do to be a part of the cluster and to appear inside the load balancer group?
8.  	Tell me more about the lambda function. Let’s say a s3 file directory and you’ve to trigger a job inside a ec2 host. How would you do that? How do you attach s3 to a lambda function? How and why you attached two roles to a lambda function?
9.  	How a lamda function is going to log in to your ec2 host? It has to be a ssh login?
10.   How familiar you’re with s3? How frequently you’ve used it and where?
11.   Two files in the s3 one is good to go(delete) after 30 days and another after 60. What to do?
12.  What are the scenarios where you’ve used CMK?
13.  How did you use a cmk to log in to the server? Is it really possible?
14.  If the RDS  isn’t encrypted and a client wants it to be encrypted. How to do?
15.  While turning on the encryption of an ebs, which key you’re going to choose?
16.  Have you written some policies for s3 buckets? Tell me scenarios.
17.  If the server is already running how would you attach a role? Explain the complete process of creating a role and assigning.
18.  If I want the RTO of 30 mins. How would you design the back up strategy? What you guys used to back up the systems? Which service you’ll use?
 
 
 
 
 
 
26th May 2021 [T-Systems, Pune]

1.  	Take me through your professional journey
2.  	Can you help me understand the latest project you’ve worked on?
3.  	How do you start your day and what activities you do w.r.t. your job?
4.  	While analyzing the cloudwatch logs, are you using some automation or what?
5.  	What is the purpose of monitoring and maintaining the API calls and what you’re achieving with this?
6.  	What about Terraform? How much you’re into Terraform?
7.  	Have you used Terraform modules? How do we set up the folder/directory structure and create the modules.
8.  	 What’s the user data in EC2?
9.  	Can we create an EC2 without a key pair?
10.  What’s eventual consistency in S3?
11.  Difference between CRR and Life cycle policy?
12.  While accessing ec2 through putty. We’re getting network connection timeout? What’s the reason? And how to troubleshoot?
13.  After EC2 creation, what’re the default cloudwatch metrics available?
14.  What’re placement groups and why are they used?
15.  How many types of load balancers are there?
16.  What are the protocols that ALB supports?
17.  Where do we get the SSL certificate?
18.  Have you heard about AWS certificate manager?
19.  If you’ve worked on RDS, what’s the difference between a subnet group and a parameter group?
20.  Can you elaborate where did you use Python and what you wrote in it?
21.  What’s the maximum execution time of lambda?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10th June 2021 [SAMA Technologies]

1.  	While creating an ec2 if I’ve given my ip in the security group and you’re not able to access it. What might be the reason?
2.  	If I want tomcat to be pre-installed on the ec2. What to do?
3.  	How can we access a s3 bucket from the ec2?
4.  	Even Though the ec2 has s3 bucket full access but still it’s not able to upload the file. What could be the reason?
5.  	What’s the max size of ebs volume you can attach to an ec2?
6.  	What’s the max size of an object to be uploaded in s3?
7.  	I’ve to upload a single file of 20 TB. How can I do that? And the client doesn’t want us to divide the data among different buckets.
8.  	What’re the bucket policies?
9.  	I want to restrict a particular user or a particular ip address to access to a bucket. Can I do that? 
10.  If you don’t have an access to IAM roles or policies, how would you allow or restrict someone?
11.  Explain the structure of the IAM policy. What are the pointers that you define in an IAM policy?
12.  You’ve to remove the put access of s3. How will you edit or which block of the policy?
13.  If you don’t have the console access for ex you’re in between the client’s call. How would you do so?
14.  How does a general policy look like?
15.  What have you done using ELB? What were the technicalities you used to ensure the website is never down?
16.  What’re the listeners in load balancer?
17.  Your website is attached to a load balancer and It’s not routing to the https. How can you fix it up?
18.  From where to get the security certificate and what it contains?
19.  What are the target groups? What’s the purpose to create?
20.  What’s the one parameter which is vital enough to create a target group?
21.  Can we pass 3 different domains through a single load balancer?
22.  While creating a rds instance you’re not selecting the subnet group, will that be created?
23.  Is there default subnet always present?
24.  What’s the major difference between public and private subnet?
25.  Subnets are attached to which component?
26.  Full form of NAT and it’s purpose?
27.  As an architect, you’re asked to launch a website, what services would you use and how would align the same?
28.  Where would you place your rds instance then? In which subnet?
29.  What are things you’ve done in cloudwatch?
30.  Have you set up an event will stop the instance as it has reached the higher cpu utilization and change its type and also informs an admin?
31.  Which are the devops tools you’ve worked on?
32.  What’s tfstate in Terraform and how would you reuse the previous configuration?
 
14/06/2021 [Inforstretch]

1.  	What are you currently doing in your company?
2.  	What are the things you’ll do to secure an aws account for your client?
3.  	While creating a VPC which are the security majors you’ll consider?
4.  	What’s the difference between NAT Gateway and NAT Instance?
5.  	How many security groups can be assigned to an aws resource?
6.  	How many rules you can create inside a security group?
7.  	How can you secure a linux os?
8.  	What’s the reason and how to troubleshoot if the request are being forwarded towards the server available in a particular AZ and not in another AZ?
9.  	What’s S3 and why to use it?
10.  How can you use cloudwatch to monitor the memory utilization? And do we need to install anything specific for that?
11.  How to make an rds instance volume encrypted when it’s not?
12.  How can I increase the storage capacity of the ec2 server, without adding any extra volume and without taking any kind of snapshot? With zero downtime.
13.  What is KMS used for?
14.  How can you commit an empty git repository?
15.  Create a repository such as only specific group should be able to commit inside it. And also if we want to use a specific keyword inside a commit message.
16.  What’s the devops in general? How would define it? Explain CICD.
17.  Which are the linux commands you’ve used? What are for memory and cpu utilization?
18.  What is the shell scripting used for?
 
12/07/2021 [AssetVantage]

1.  	Your current responsibilities and your roles
2.  	How do you make sure the data availability in it?
3.  	Have you worked on build pipelines or any other tool of similar kind?
4.  	What are the steps you have taken for CICD?
5.  	What you used for publish over ssh? Did you use public key or private key
6.  	Have you worked SSL OR DLS to make your site more secured?
7.  	If you’ve a database and your client wants it to be encrypted. What to do?
8.  	How would you rotate the key after a specific time as the db is encrypted.
9.  	Have you worked with ami and iam? And how do you permit users
10.  Can you describe how you're using the s3 bucket?
11.  If you’re the owner of s3 bucket and you need a third party to access it and add the data
12.  Can you have cross account users and have access?
13.  Have you written shell scripts for automation purposes?
14.  What is your knowledge about linux administration?
15.  Advantages of containerization or directly hosting on ec2
16.  What was the most challenging task for you so far while working with the cicd? How did you tackle and what material did you refer to?
17.  Can you explain what ansible does?
18.  If you need to write a shell script and you haven’t worked on it before? What’d be your approach what would you do and proceed towards the completion?
19.  If a build didn’t succeed what are the steps you’ll follow
20.  Can you give a brief about what is git branching structure.
21.  Did you have the configuration files in git or you handled them separately? Did you use cicd or standard mostly in Jenkins?
-          2 interviews -
26/07/2021 [Capgemini]
1.  	How can I provide the access to s3 bucket through endpoint without IAM role
2.  	What's a virtual private gateway?
3.  	How can you access the private server through a public load balancer?
4.  	If there are two different target groups but the ips aren’t working and traffic isn’t being routed? How to tackle it?
5.  	How to download the lambda code?
6.  	What’s and how the site to site vpn connection is established?
7.  	What’s AWS direct connect?
8.  	How the NACL AND NAT is set up?
9.  	In Autoscaling once the server is deployed and then shut down then how can we get its data or where it’s ma``intained?
Using Auto Scaling lifecycle hooks, Lambda, and EC2 Run Command
 
27/07/2021 [RNT.AI]
 
1.  	Please brief your current role and responsibilities.
2.  	What is Ansible Tower?
3.  	Ansible Playbook structure
4.  	Have you created a VPC and how do you secure it and where is the peering needed?
5.  	Are you comfortable with Linux? (administration)
6.  	Experience in Scripting? Shell/Python
7.  	Explain the CICD project you’ve worked on.



 

04/03/202        [CloudCover]


1. What is the difference between NACl and the security group?
2. What is the difference between application load balancer and network load balancer?
3. What is difference between NAT gateway and NAT instance
4. What is a public and private subnet?
5. How can you identify which subnet is public or private?
6. How can you access S3 bucket from a private subnet without the internet.
7. Suppose your pem file is missed then how will you recover your pem file to ssh into the server?
8. How to copy one file from s3 bucket to another bucket using aws cli
9. Is it possible to access ec2 server without ssh ?
10. How will you increase root size volume of ec2 server
11. What is life cycle policy in s3 bucket
12. Difference between softlink and hard link
13.What are listener's in Load balancer
14.Difference between S3 vs EBS vs EFS
15.Which IP is used in NAT Gateway?
16. .Difference between AMI & Snapshot
17..Difference between S3 standard & Deep archive
18.Difference between Elastic IP and Public IP
19. If you can’t connect to the EC2 machine, you are getting a connection timeout error, so what will be the reason & how you troubleshoot it?
20. How you configure Auto Scaling, what are the steps?

 



