1. What is EC2?
EC2, a Virtual Machine in the cloud on which you have OS-level control. 
You can run this cloud server whenever you want and can be used when you need to deploy your own servers in the cloud, similar to your on-premises servers, and when you want to have full control over the choice of hardware and the updates on the machine.

5. What do you understand by VPC?
VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud. It allows you to customize your networking configuration. VPC is a network that is logically isolated from other networks in the cloud. It allows you to have your private IP Address range, internet gateways, subnets, and security groups.

6. DNS and Load Balancer Services come under which type of Cloud Service?
DNS and Load Balancer are a part of IaaS-Storage Cloud Service.

7. What are the Storage Classes available in Amazon S3?
Storage Classes available with Amazon S3 are:

Amazon S3 Standard
Amazon S3 Standard-Infrequent Access
Amazon S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage
Amazon Glacier
8. Explain what T2 instances are?
T2 Instances are designed to provide moderate baseline performance and the capability to burst to higher performance as required by the workload.

9. What are Key-Pairs in AWS?
Key-Pairs are secure login information for your Virtual Machines. To connect to the instances, you can use Key-Pairs which contain a Public Key and a Private Key.

10. How many Subnets can you have per VPC?
You can have 200 Subnets per VPC.

11. List different types of Cloud Services.
Different types of Cloud Services are:

Software as a Service (SaaS)
Data as a Service (DaaS)
Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Advanced AWS Questions
12. Explain what S3 is?
S3 stands for Simple Storage Service. You can use the S3 interface to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time and from anywhere on the web. For S3, the payment model is “pay as you go”.

13. How does Amazon Route 53 provide high availability and low latency?
Amazon Route 53 uses the following to provide high availability and low latency:

Globally Distributed Servers - Amazon is a global service and consequently has DNS Servers globally. Any customer creating a query from any part of the world gets to reach a DNS Server local to them that provides low latency.
Dependency - Route 53 provides a high level of dependability required by critical applications.
Optimal Locations - Route 53 serves the requests from the nearest data center to the client sending the request. AWS has data-centers across the world. The data can be cached on different data-centers located in different regions of the world depending on the requirements and the configuration chosen. Route 53 enables any server in any data-center which has the required data to respond. This way, it enables the nearest server to serve the client request, thus reducing the time taken to serve.

How can you send a request to Amazon S3?
Amazon S3 is a REST Service, and you can send a request by using the REST API or the AWS SDK wrapper libraries that wrap the underlying Amazon S3 REST API.

15. What does AMI include?
An AMI includes the following things:

A template for the root volume for the instance.
Launch permissions to decide which AWS accounts can avail the AMI to launch instances.
A block device mapping that determines the volumes to attach to the instance when it is launched.
16. What are the different types of Instances?
Following are the types of instances:

Compute Optimized
Memory-Optimized
Storage Optimized
Accelerated Computing
General Purpose
17. What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?
An AWS Availability Zone is a physical location where an Amazon data center is located. On the other hand, an AWS Region is a collection or group of Availability Zones or Data Centers. 

This setup helps your services to be more available as you can place your VMs in different data centers within an AWS Region. If one of the data centers fails in a Region, the client requests still get served from the other data centers located in the same Region. This arrangement, thus, helps your service to be available even if a Data Center goes down.

18. How do you monitor Amazon VPC?
You can monitor Amazon VPC using:

CloudWatch
VPC Flow Logs
19. What are the different types of EC2 instances based on their costs?
The three types of EC2 instances based on the costs are:

On-Demand Instance - These instances are prepared as and when needed. Whenever you feel the need for a new EC2 instance, you can go ahead and create an on-demand instance. It is cheap for the short-time but not when taken for the long term.

Spot Instance - These types of instances can be bought through the bidding model. These are comparatively cheaper than On-Demand Instances.

Reserved Instance - On AWS, you can create instances that you can reserve for a year or so. These types of instances are especially useful when you know in advance that you will be needing an instance for the long term. In such cases, you can create a reserved instance and save heavily on costs.

20. What do you understand by stopping and terminating an EC2 Instance?
Stopping an EC2 instance means to shut it down as you would normally do on your Personal Computer. This will not delete any volumes attached to the instance and the instance can be started again when needed.

On the other hand, terminating an instance is equivalent to deleting an instance. All the volumes attached to the instance get deleted and it is not possible to restart the instance if needed at a later point in time.

21. What are the consistency models for modern DBs offered by AWS?
Eventual Consistency - It means that the data will be consistent eventually, but may not be immediate. This will serve the client requests faster, but chances are that some of the initial read requests may read the stale data. This type of consistency is preferred in systems where data need not be real-time. For example, if you don’t see the recent tweets on Twitter or recent posts on Facebook for a couple of seconds, it is acceptable.

Strong Consistency - It provides an immediate consistency where the data will be consistent across all the DB Servers immediately. Accordingly. This model may take some time to make the data consistent and subsequently start serving the requests again. However, in this model, it is guaranteed that all the responses will always have consistent data.

22. What is Geo-Targeting in CloudFront?
Geo-Targeting enables the creation of customized content based on the geographic location of the user. This allows you to serve the content which is more relevant to a user. For example, using Geo-Targeting, you can show the news related to local body elections to a user sitting in India, which you may not want to show to a user sitting in the US. Similarly, the news related to Baseball Tournament can be more relevant to a user sitting in the US, and not so relevant for a user sitting in India.

23. What are the advantages of AWS IAM?
AWS IAM enables an administrator to provide granular level access to different users and groups. Different users and user groups may need different levels of access to different resources created. With IAM, you can create roles with specific access-levels and assign the roles to the users. 

It also allows you to provide access to the resources to users and applications without creating the IAM Roles, which is known as Federated Access.

24. What do you understand by a Security Group?
When you create an instance in AWS, you may or may not want that instance to be accessible from the public network. Moreover, you may want that instance to be accessible from some networks and not from others.

Security Groups are a type of rule-based Virtual Firewall using which you can control access to your instances. You can create rules defining the Port Numbers, Networks, or protocols from which you want to allow access or deny access.

25. What are Spot Instances and On-Demand Instances?
When AWS creates EC2 instances, there are some blocks of computing capacity and processing power left unused. AWS releases these blocks as Spot Instances. Spot Instances run whenever capacity is available. These are a good option if you are flexible about when your applications can run and if your applications can be interrupted.

On the other hand, On-Demand Instances can be created as and when needed. The prices of such instances are static. Such instances will always be available unless you explicitly terminate them.

26. Explain Connection Draining.
Connection Draining is a feature provided by AWS which enables your servers which are either going to be updated or removed, to serve the current requests. 

If Connection Draining is enabled, the Load Balancer will allow an outgoing instance to complete the current requests for a specific period but will not send any new request to it. Without Connection Draining, an outgoing instance will immediately go off and the requests pending on that instance will error out.

27. What is a Stateful and a Stateless Firewall?
A Stateful Firewall is the one that maintains the state of the rules defined. It requires you to define only inbound rules. Based on the inbound rules defined, it automatically allows the outbound traffic to flow. 

On the other hand, a Stateless Firewall requires you to explicitly define rules for inbound as well as outbound traffic. 

For example, if you allow inbound traffic from Port 80, a Stateful Firewall will allow outbound traffic to Port 80, but a Stateless Firewall will not do so.

28. What is a Power User Access in AWS?
An Administrator User will be similar to the owner of the AWS Resources. He can create, delete, modify or view the resources and also grant permissions to other users for the AWS Resources.

A Power User Access provides Administrator Access without the capability to manage the users and permissions. In other words, a user with Power User Access can create, delete, modify or see the resources, but he cannot grant permissions to other users.

29. What is an Instance Store Volume and an EBS Volume?
An Instance Store Volume is temporary storage that is used to store the temporary data required by an instance to function. The data is available as long as the instance is running. As soon as the instance is turned off, the Instance Store Volume gets removed and the data gets deleted.

On the other hand, an EBS Volume represents a persistent storage disk. The data stored in an EBS Volume will be available even after the instance is turned off.

30. What are Recovery Time Objective and Recovery Point Objective in AWS?
Recovery Time Objective - It is the maximum acceptable delay between the interruption of service and restoration of service. This translates to an acceptable time window when the service can be unavailable.

Recover Point Objective - It is the maximum acceptable amount of time since the last data restore point. It translates to the acceptable amount of data loss which lies between the last recovery point and the interruption of service.

31. Is there a way to upload a file that is greater than 100 Megabytes in Amazon S3?
Yes, it is possible by using the Multipart Upload Utility from AWS. With the Multipart Upload Utility, larger files can be uploaded in multiple parts that are uploaded independently. You can also decrease upload time by uploading these parts in parallel. After the upload is done, the parts are merged into a single object or file to create the original file from which the parts were created.

32. Can you change the Private IP Address of an EC2 instance while it is running or in a stopped state?
No, a Private IP Address of an EC2 instance cannot be changed. When an EC2 instance is launched, a private IP Address is assigned to that instance at the boot time. This private IP Address is attached to the instance for its entire lifetime and can never be changed.

33. What is the use of lifecycle hooks is Autoscaling?
Lifecycle hooks are used for Auto-scaling to put an additional wait time to a scale-in or a scale-out event.

34. What are the policies that you can set for your user’s passwords?
Following are the policies that can be set for user’s passwords:

You can set a minimum length of the password.
You can ask the users to add at least one number or special character to the password.
Assigning the requirements of particular character types, including uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters.
You can enforce automatic password expiration, prevent the reuse of old passwords, and request for a password reset upon their next AWS sign-in.
You can have the AWS users contact an account administrator when the user has allowed the password to expire.



 What is auto-scaling?
Auto-scaling is a function that allows you to provision and launch new instances whenever there is a demand. It allows you to automatically increase or decrease resource capacity in relation to the demand.

4. What is geo-targeting in CloudFront?
Geo-Targeting is a concept where businesses can show personalized content to their audience based on their geographic location without changing the URL. This helps you create customized content for the audience of a specific geographical area, keeping their needs in the forefront.

How do you upgrade or downgrade a system with near-zero downtime?
You can upgrade or downgrade a system with near-zero downtime using the following steps of migration:

Open EC2 console
Choose Operating System AMI
Launch an instance with the new instance type
Install all the updates
Install applications
Test the instance to see if it’s working
If working, deploy the new instance and replace the older instance
Once it’s deployed, you can upgrade or downgrade the system with near-zero downtime.
Take home these interview Q&As and get much more. Download the complete AWS Interview Guide here:

8. Is there any other alternative tool to log into the cloud environment other than console?


9. What services can be used to create a centralized logging solution?
The essential services that you can use are Amazon CloudWatch Logs, store them in Amazon S3, and then use Amazon Elastic Search to visualize them. You can use Amazon Kinesis Firehose to move the data from Amazon S3 to Amazon ElasticSearch.

10. What are the native AWS Security logging capabilities?
Most of the AWS services have their logging options. Also, some of them have an account level logging, like in AWS CloudTrail, AWS Config, and others. Let’s take a look at two services in specific:

12. You are trying to provide a service in a particular region, but you do not see the service in that region. Why is this happening, and how do you fix it?
Not all Amazon AWS services are available in all regions. When Amazon initially launches a new service, it doesn’t get immediately published in all the regions. They start small and then slowly expand to other regions. So, if you don’t see a specific service in your region, chances are the service hasn’t been published in your region yet.
 However, if you want to get the service that is not available, you can switch to the nearest region that provides the services.
 
 15. Name some of the AWS services that are not region-specific
AWS services that are not region-specific are:

IAM
Route 53
Web Application Firewall 
CloudFront
16. What are the differences between NAT Gateways and NAT Instances?
While both NAT Gateways and NAT Instances serve the same function, they still have some key differences.

Differences

17. What is the difference between stopping and terminating an EC2 instance? 
While you may think that both stopping and terminating are the same, there is a difference. When you stop an EC2 instance, it performs a normal shutdown on the instance and moves to a stopped state. However, when you terminate the instance, it is transferred to a stopped state, and the EBS volumes attached to it are deleted and can never be recovered. 


How do you configure CloudWatch to recover an EC2 instance?
Here’s how you can configure them:

Create an Alarm using Amazon CloudWatch
In the Alarm, go to Define Alarm -> Actions tab
Choose Recover this instance option

23. How can you recover/login to an EC2 instance for which you have lost the key?
Follow the steps provided below to recover an EC2 instance if you have lost the key:

Verify that the EC2Config service is running
Detach the root volume for the instance
Attach the volume to a temporary instance
Modify the configuration file
Restart the original instance


25. How do you allow a user to gain access to a specific bucket?
You need to follow the four steps provided below to allow access. They are:

Categorize your instances
Define how authorized users can manage specific servers.
Lockdown your tags
Attach your policies to IAM users

AWS Interview Questions for VPC
27. VPC is not resolving the server through DNS. What might be the issue, and how can you fix it?
To fix this problem, you need to enable the DNS hostname resolution, so that the problem resolves itself.

28. How do you connect multiple sites to a VPC?
If you have multiple VPN connections, you can provide secure communication between sites using the AWS VPN CloudHub. Here’s a diagram that will show you how to connect various sites to a VPC:

29. Name and explain some security products and features available in VPC?
Here is a selection of security products and features:

Security groups - This acts as a firewall for the EC2 instances, controlling inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level.
Network access control lists - It acts as a firewall for the subnets, controlling inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.
Flow logs - These capture the inbound and outbound traffic from the network interfaces in your VPC.

30. How do you monitor Amazon VPC?
You can monitor VPC by using:

CloudWatch and CloudWatch logs
VPC Flow Logs

31. How can you add an existing instance to a new Auto Scaling group?
Here’s how you can add an existing instance to a new Auto Scaling group:

Open EC2 console
Select your instance under Instances
Choose Actions -> Instance Settings -> Attach to Auto Scaling Group
Select a new Auto Scaling group
Attach this group to the Instance
Edit the Instance if needed
Once done, you can successfully add the instance to a new Auto Scaling group
32. What are the factors to consider while migrating to Amazon Web Services?
Here are the factors to consider during AWS migration:

Operational Costs - These include the cost of infrastructure, ability to match demand and supply, transparency, and others.
Workforce Productivity 
Cost avoidance
Operational resilience
Business agility


AWS Interview Questions for Elastic Block Storage
38. How can you automate EC2 backup using EBS?
Use the following steps in order to automate EC2 backup using EBS:

Get the list of instances and connect to AWS through API to list the Amazon EBS volumes that are attached locally to the instance.
List the snapshots of each volume, and assign a retention period of the snapshot. Later on, create a snapshot of each volume.
Make sure to remove the snapshot if it is older than the retention period.
39. What is the difference between EBS and Instance Store?
EBS is a kind of permanent storage in which the data can be restored at a later point. When you save data in the EBS, it stays even after the lifetime of the EC2 instance. On the other hand, Instance Store is temporary storage that is physically attached to a host machine. With an Instance Store, you cannot detach one instance and attach it to another. Unlike in EBS, data in an Instance Store is lost if any instance is stopped or terminated.

40. Can you take a backup of EFS like EBS, and if yes, how?
Yes, you can use the EFS-to-EFS backup solution to recover from unintended changes or deletion in Amazon EFS. Follow these steps:

Sign in to the AWS Management Console
Click the launch EFS-to-EFS-restore button
Use the region selector in the console navigation bar to select region
Verify if you have chosen the right template on the Select Template page
Assign a name to your solution stack
Review the parameters for the template and modify them if necessary
41. How do you auto-delete old snapshots?
Here’s the procedure for auto-deleting old snapshots:

As per procedure and best practices, take snapshots of the EBS volumes on Amazon S3.
Use AWS Ops Automator to handle all the snapshots automatically.
This allows you to create, copy, and delete Amazon EBS snapshots.
S3


AWS Interview Questions for Elastic Load Balancing
42. What are the different types of load balancers in AWS?
There are three types of load balancers that are supported by Elastic Load Balancing:

Application Load Balancer
Network Load Balancer
Classic Load Balancer
43. What are the different uses of the various load balancers in AWS Elastic Load Balancing?
Application Load Balancer
Used if you need flexible application management and TLS termination.

Network Load Balancer
Used if you require extreme performance and static IPs for your applications.

Classic Load Balancer
Used if your application is built within the EC2 Classic network

What is the difference between an IAM role and an IAM user?
The two key differences between the IAM role and IAM user are:

An IAM role is an IAM entity that defines a set of permissions for making AWS service requests, while an IAM user has permanent long-term credentials and is used to interact with the AWS services directly.  
In the IAM role, trusted entities, like IAM users, applications, or an AWS service, assume roles whereas the IAM user has full access to all the AWS IAM functionalities.
48. What are the managed policies in AWS IAM?
There are two types of managed policies; one that is managed by you and one that is managed by AWS. They are IAM resources that express permissions using IAM policy language. You can create, edit, and manage them separately from the IAM users, groups, and roles to which they are attached.

49. Can you give an example of an IAM policy and a policy summary?
Here’s an example of an IAM policy to grant access to add, update, and delete objects from a specific folder.

AWS Interview Questions for Route 53
51. What is the difference between Latency Based Routing and Geo DNS?
The Geo Based DNS routing takes decisions based on the geographic location of the request. Whereas, the Latency Based Routing utilizes latency measurements between networks and AWS data centers. Latency Based Routing is used when you want to give your customers the lowest latency possible. On the other hand, Geo Based routing is used when you want to direct the customer to different websites based on the country or region they are browsing from. 

52. What is the difference between a Domain and a Hosted Zone?
Domain
A domain is a collection of data describing a self-contained administrative and technical unit. For example, www.simplilearn.com is a domain and a general DNS concept.

Hosted zone
A hosted zone is a container that holds information about how you want to route traffic on the internet for a specific domain. For example, lms.simplilearn.com is a hosted zone.

53. How does Amazon Route 53 provide high availability and low latency?
Here’s how Amazon Route 53 provides the resources in question:

Globally Distributed Servers
Amazon is a global service and consequently has DNS services globally. Any customer creating a query from any part of the world gets to reach a DNS server local to them that provides low latency. 

Dependency
Route 53 provides a high level of dependability required by critical applications

Optimal Locations
Route 53 uses a global anycast network to answer queries from the optimal position automatically. 

AWS Interview Questions for Config
54. How does AWS config work with AWS CloudTrail?
AWS CloudTrail records user API activity on your account and allows you to access information about the activity. Using CloudTrail, you can get full details about API actions such as the identity of the caller, time of the call, request parameters, and response elements. On the other hand, AWS Config records point-in-time configuration details for your AWS resources as Configuration Items (CIs). 

You can use a CI to ascertain what your AWS resource looks like at any given point in time. Whereas, by using CloudTrail, you can quickly answer who made an API call to modify the resource. You can also use Cloud Trail to detect if a security group was incorrectly configured.

55. Can AWS Config aggregate data across different AWS accounts?
Yes, you can set up AWS Config to deliver configuration updates from different accounts to one S3 bucket, once the appropriate IAM policies are applied to the S3 bucket.

1) Explain what AWS is?
AWS stands for Amazon Web Service; it is a collection of remote computing services also known as a cloud computing platform.  This new realm of cloud computing is also known as IaaS or Infrastructure as a Service.


 Mention what the relationship between an instance and AMI is?
From a single AMI, you can launch multiple types of instances.  An instance type defines the hardware of the host computer used for your instance. Each instance type provides different computer and memory capabilities.  Once you launch an instance, it looks like a traditional host, and we can interact with it as we would with any computer.


